the European Union's top Diplomat says
the block will have to make a choice
between supporting Israel or
International institutions and the rule
of law youf barell was speaking after
the un's highest Court ruled that Israel
had to Halt its military offensive in
Rafa in response to a case brought by
South Africa they've accused Israel of
violating the UN genocide convention in
Gaza Israel has said no power on Earth
will stop it going after how us Lucy
Williamson reports now from
Jerusalem Israel's soldiers have been
ordered to push into Raa Israel's
leaders have been ordered to
stop footage from both sides shows the
fighting as Israeli troops Edge closer
to the city center but the un's highest
court today focused on civilians this
those still there and the 800,000 who
have fled Israel must immediately beh
hold its military offensive and any
other action in the Rafa Governor which
may inflict on the Palestinian group in
Gaza conditions of life that could bring
about its physical destruction in whole
or in par Israel says this is a precise
and limited operation but satellite
pictures of Rafa show the destruction
less than two weeks after the
assault today Israel's Army said it had
recovered the bodies of three hostages
from northern Gaza Michel nissam orian
Hernandez and Hanan Blanca one member of
the war cabinet said Israel had to keep
fighting to return its hostages and
Safeguard its citizens and would
continue to act according to
international
law foreign criticism of Israel's
actions in Gaza is growing but prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu or BB as
he's known is comfortable being seen as
the staunch def defender of Israel's
security Under Siege I don't like
B to say the least I don't think he's a
war criminal it's very easy to sit miles
away and criticize what's happening do
you have a better alternative I don't
really care about what people thinking
about us you can see that if we do care
about what people think us so we should
stop the war no we are here we are
Israel therefore it's really uh
important us to have a support and we
don't get
it Salwa Al masri Sheltering in a tent
on the coast north of Rafa had little
faith in the Court's power to change her
situation implement this on the ground
they shouldn't say one thing and do
something different today they say they
want to stop the war but the massacres
are only
increasing the Rafer offensive has
blocked key Aid routes through southern
Gaza supplies brought in in Via a new US
Pier quickly looted the court today
ordered Israel to reopen the Rafa
Crossing new battle lines in this war
driven by promises on both sides to
protect civilians Lucy Williamson BBC
News
Jerusalem okay let's speak now to Joe
ban who is the professor of Middle East
history at Stanford University in the
United States hello and welcome to the
program professor uh first off will this
ruling just the latest um against going
against Israel um in the past week make
any mark on their next
actions it won't make an immediate
difference because uh all of the Israeli
government officials who are responsible
decision makers have said clearly they
aren't going to obey the ruling uh so
whatever it says uh won't be uh make a
difference in the short run
so what is all this amounting to um you
know we had the ICC arrest warrants
we've now got this um we had the
Declaration by three countries um that
they would recognize it was Spain Norway
and Ireland isn't it that they would
unilaterally recognize a pal Palestine
state where is all this heading in the
long term so since October 7th we've
seen uh an accelerating Trend in the
International Community to really for
the first time uh take measures that
begin to hold Israel accountable uh
there's also the security Council
resolution that the United States
abstained on rather than veto so Israel
is becoming gradually more and more
isolated the United States to the extent
that it without reservation supports
Israel as it has been doing is also
becoming more and more isolated
in the medium to long run uh this will
ultimately impose serious constraints on
what Israel and the United States can
do um Algeria you mentioned the security
Council there Algeria of course the only
Arab State on the Security Council is
there anything that they could be doing
to push this matter
on they could be doing many things but
by and large most of the Arab
countries uh have never really uh stood
up to support Palestinian rights uh
Egypt uh Jordan Saudi Arabia are all
authoritarian Sunni states which are
effectively in an alignment with Israel
uh in a front against Iran and its
Regional proxies Hezbollah Hamas the
houthis in y
uh and that uh overrides uh all of the
popular sentiment that does exist very
broadly in the Arab world in support of
the Palestinian people what what would
override um Benjamin Netanyahu with his
insistence that he's not going to stop
what would stop him well Israel at least
for Jews is still a
democracy uh there were in the months
before the Hamas October 7th attack
demonstrations of hundreds of thousands
of Israelis every week uh demanding uh
ultimately that Netanyahu resign and
those demonstrations have in the last
month or so resumed and have uh become
quite large there'll be another one uh
tomorrow evening uh as well uh or well
actually it's this evening if you're in
your uh Saturday evening uh there's some
possibility that that kind of public
pressure uh will uh erode the legitimacy
of the government and force an early
election or Force the uh members of the
opposition who joined the war cabinet to
resign uh so this could happen Okay Joel
banon Professor Joel banan thank you
very much indeed thank you